Nigeria is by far the most populous nation in Africa with over 200 million inhabitants.
Over 389,000 kingdom publishers are giving a witness to Jehovah's name in this country.
The branch office is in Igiduma, where approximately 570 full-time members care for the work,
along with an additional 100 working on the renovation of the branch.
We wonder, what would we come to love about the friends in Nigeria?
What beautiful qualities would stand out?
Well, many could be mentioned, but we were especially touched by the joy they display
despite challenges.
Our brothers remain joyful because their focus is on future kingdom realities, not on the
present unfavorable conditions.
In the month of September and October, a number of states experienced severe flooding.
Even with us unwelcome challenge, the brothers ensured that they would not miss the spiritual
food, thus they had the watchtower study in a canoe over flooded areas, joyfully attending
and commenting despite obstacles.
Even though many had to leave their homes, they still had joy.
Not because of their lives being turned upside down, but joyful because they were not alone.
Joyful because they knew they had a supportive brotherhood behind them, and they knew the
real solution is soon to come.
How encouraging to see the friends joy despite the hardship that natural disasters bring.
We also see this quality shine through when the brothers endure other hardships.
The Rousseau Otozo endured persecution when he took a neutral stand involving a conflict
with the neighboring village.
But I explained to them from the scripture, my conscience would not allow me to support
and that would offend you, and they flogged me, tied me, and that led to my banishment
from the community.
I did not have any plan of where I would stay, when the brothers they welcomed me, the encouraged
me, the supported me in various ways.
I received several shepherds in call, it showed me that Jehovah took note of me personally.
He cares about me.
Brother Otozo continues to find joy in his ministry in spite of these challenges.
Next, note the example of a sister who is able to maintain her joy despite physical limitations.
Sister Ruki Pararo suddenly lost her eyesight when she was 23 years old.
Around that time, she came into contact with the truth.
Listen to what impressed her at her first meeting with Jehovah's people.
Notice too how her zeal and the ministry affects her joy.
For blind people, we normally feel insecure, especially to those who are not used to.
But in my very first meeting, I felt the love, you know, I sense the joy, no need to be
so free with me, the love, they hold me, so I was touched with the love because I felt
special.
When I first lost my sight, I told I was useless.
Now, I am useless because now I can see I can use my life to self-jehovah and I can go outside
to talk to people and make myself useless.
So this gives me joy and it makes me so love Jehovah and self-jehovah the more.
Without a doubt, God's people in Nigeria are making the joy of Jehovah their stronghold.
And that left an indelible mark on our hearts.
Our next stop was the neighboring country of Cameroon.
Cameroon is often referred to as Africa in miniature because of its geographical and cultural
diversity.
Over 50,000 publishers are preaching the good news in this branch territory, which includes
Equatorial Guinea and Gabon.
The branch office is located in Duwala, where about 70 full-time workers care for the work.
We wondered the same about Jehovah's people in Cameroon.
What would we come to love about them?
What beautiful qualities would stand out?
Well, it is difficult to narrow it to just one.
But we could say that a quality that stood out plainly was their zeal in serving Jehovah.
The brothers and sisters just love to preach and conduct Bible studies.
This can be seen among the Bethelites.
Right outside the Bethel Gate, we set up a literature cart.
Early mornings before work, evenings after work, and on weekends, Bethelites man the cart.
We have had wonderful conversations, and several Bible studies have been started.
Also, every year preaching campaigns are organized by the branch to cover seldom worked and
unassigned territories all over the branch territory.
The purpose of brothers and sisters answer this call, including many young ones.
For many of the friends, it is their yearly vacation.
I love participating in campaigns because they are a great opportunity to express one's
faith in Jehovah in a remarkable way.
We almost never know what awaits us in the territory where we are going.
However, we always see how Jehovah supports us.
During campaigns, we cover long distances to preach, and sometimes we return exhausted.
But surprisingly, the next day we are up early and ready to go and preach farther than
the previous day.
This is proof that it is Jehovah who gives us strength.
I am determined to participate in all campaigns until the preaching work stops.
When participating in these preaching campaigns, their friends are finding great interest
in the truth.
In visiting publishers in a remote area, Brother Dave Momall learned of Mr. Nicholas, an
interested man in a nearby village.
Mr. Nicholas studied the Bible with a number of people in his village.
So we asked Mr. Nicholas how he got the publications and how he learned to conduct a watchtower
study.
Mr. Nicholas explained to us that Mr. Clement came every two months.
He was the one who brought him the publications, and he was the one who taught him how to organize
Christian meetings.
We traveled to the next village to meet Mr. Clement.
When we arrived, we found that Mr. Clement was also preaching in his village, and he had
even built a place of worship.
Although these men were not yet Jehovah's Witnesses, they were already preaching in remote
villages.
A special pioneer was sent to follow up on the interest.
When we arrived in Mr. Clement's village, interested ones came to visit us immediately.
We began to conduct Bible studies that afternoon, and played videos into the night.
The next day, we visited Mr. Nicholas in his village.
Those interested in the good news insisted that we meet with the chief with the hope that
he would give us land to build a kingdom hall.
To our surprise, the chief agreed.
Now Mr. Clement is baptized and Mr. Nicholas is progressing towards baptism.
Much more could be said about the beautiful spiritual qualities these friends exhibit.
But the joy we found in Nigeria and the zeal of the friends in Cameroon are two of the
qualities that touched our hearts and endeared the friends to us.
It was a privilege to serve them and to see how Jehovah is using these faithful servants
to care for his kingdom work in this part of the world.